I just built a really quick prototype for this little annoyance I was having. I grease the groove with pullups, and hit them every 15 minutes, but it's a hassle to unlock my phone and set a timer for it. But not doing that means I'd forget. I spent more than a solid hour a while back just trying to find something that'll just automate the thing in a quick tile that I could click from the lockscreen. Alas nothing worked. Until I just built an MVP for myself. 

I haven't opened an Android Project in almost a year. I've forgotten so much. Yet I built that prototype in the time it took for me to finish my dinner (Yes I do take an hour to have my food, and yes it was cold by the time I was finished). The point here isn't the project itself, almost a majority of it was made by ChatGPT, it's how I'm done and now have an actual thing I can use. It's total shit but it does what it needs to. And I learnt some stuff along the way. 

As a consequence of making that I also got some positive momentum, which catapulted me into writing this article and cleaning up my Obsidian Vault while waiting between compilations. I had three ChatGPT windows open, bouncing different ideas between them and it was messy, and chaotic and glorious. 

I've always loved self-improvement. There's a picturesque feeling there. The structure they have. But that isn't me. I'm messy,  I'll write stuff, only to realize after I've written, that I wrote the entire thing wrong. The first draft is only to know for the actual content. The MVP app, is only a proof of concept to create a better app. It's the stream, that turns into a deluge to encompass you. It's momentum that pushes you ahead. 

Momentum is good, because it allows you non-linear speed. Like gravity building in speed every second, momentum is able to just feed itself. Even if you started with no energy, you build more and more energy, until you can't stop. Until the muse has taken you and you keep writing like your life depends on it. It doesn't have to be one thing, even switching between multiple when one is slowing you down. Motion unlike motivation builds on itself. Motivation just comes and slowly fades away. Sure, you can use discipline to make up for a lack of motivation, but there's a wild chaotic train that you could do instead. 

By following the path of chaos and momentum, you're able to start ugly, stay messy and finish smug. It looks like nothing much. You're hammering words out onto the page, writing unoptimized if-else blocks. But slowly it builds. And in the end, you actually have something to show. Something to tell other people that you did yourself. You have the satisfaction of having made stuff. And in case you stop or drop one, you're still moving away from it's embrace, onto yet another project. Like a player chasing after women, never staying long with one, but there is something enviable about that lifestyle, something that calls out to us to emulate. 

And in case you want the original project again? You're not going to get any lip. Maybe some problems in having deprecated packages, but for the most part, you can start where you left off. If you want to finish things you start then it's even better because you keep leaving stuff halfway, so there are plenty of routes you can go down whenever you feel like wanting to. You're like a man in freefall who just starts from the last point he dropped off at.


The takeaway is simple. Sometimes the answer is just energy. Use your energy to build momentum, use momentum to breed chaos, and chaos shall promise you only a story for the ages. Still better than planning out the perfect roadmap and not doing anything at all after. 